---
layout: page
title: Source
permalink: source
show-title: true
---

London House is a kitchen record dating from the years 1612 to 1614. These sources are perhaps most similar to an account book, in that it tracks expenses for the house on a weekly basis. However, unlike most account books, a kitchen record focuses solely on the food being purchased for the house every week. What makes this record particularly interesting is it not only tracks the food purchased, but what was consumed, the price, and what was left over for the coming weeks. This information was laid out in varying formats but had four consistent categories: “Venit,” the type of food purchased, “Expence,” how much of the food was consumed, “Valet,” the price to purchase the food item, and “Remanet,” the amount, if any, let over for the coming weeks. 

Such kitchen records are incredibly rare, and, thus, highly valued amongst food historians. This is not only due to their scarcity but also because they provide crucial information that can not be consistently garnered from other archival sources. For instance, food historians often have to look to sources like cookbooks to gain a general sense of what every day consumption looked like. While these sources are more abundant, they are not as informative as, just like today, someone may use one recipe from a cookbook constantly and never even attempt a different one.  Thus, kitchen records paint a much more accurate picture of what was being realistically consumed on a weekly basis within a home. 

Unfortunately, little is known about London House regarding the property, the house’s owner, and who wrote the record. All that is known, according to the Folger Shakespeare Library where the work is housed, is that “the householder was apparently a Lady, a friend of Lady Townshend and of Lord Stanhope, but her name is not mentioned.” Presumably, this is also one of many houses the owner had, considering it is titled “London House,” indicating there may be a country house the owners escaped to in the hotter months. 
